Two-dimensional guillotine cutting. One rectangular sheet with integer width W
and height H is cut into pieces of several product sizes. Each product has an
integer width and height, a fixed orientation (no piece is ever rotated), a
maximum quantity, and a profit per piece. Choose how many pieces of each
product to cut, from 0 up to its maximum, and where to place them, to maximize
total profit. Unused sheet is allowed.

Every cut is a guillotine cut: a straight cut from one edge of the current
rectangle to the opposite edge, splitting it into two rectangles. The number of
cutting stages is unlimited, so the cut direction may change at every level.

parsed/polarizing_film.json -- polarizing film restocking
---------------------------------------------------------

Authored for the openconstraint-site case page
/cases/two-dimensional-guillotine-cutting; not derived from a benchmark
(license CC0-1.0). It was written as JSON, so it has no raw form in data/; it
sits in parsed/ with the converted benchmark instances, where the scripts read
every instance. One 12 x 8 sheet of polarizing film is cut into panels for
five products. The film's polarization direction is why no piece may be
rotated.

  id   width x height   max quantity   profit
  P1       4 x 6              3           31
  P2       8 x 2              2           17
  P3       2 x 3              2            7
  P4       7 x 5              2           50
  P5       3 x 6              1           21

The optimal profit is 110: three P1 and one P2 -- 4 pieces using 88 of the 96
units of film and leaving 8 unused. model.py proves 110 optimal in under a
second on one worker.

The comparison pattern from shelf_packing.py follows one rule: take pieces in
descending profit per piece (up to each product's maximum, ties in input
order); put each on the first shelf where it fits under the shelf height and in
the remaining width, otherwise open a new shelf on top at the piece's height,
and skip the piece if that would exceed the sheet height. It earns 81 (one P4,
two P3, one P2; 63 units used), 29 below the optimum. No piece it skips fits
anywhere in the film it leaves unused. The loss comes from the order alone: the
same rule reaches 110 when it takes P1 first. Shelves come off the sheet with
horizontal cuts and pieces come off each shelf with vertical cuts, so the
pattern is guillotine by construction.

Benchmark instances from 2DPackLib
----------------------------------

data/CGCUT1.ins2D, data/OF1.ins2D and data/OF2.ins2D are the original files,
unchanged, from 2DPackLib
(https://site.unibo.it/operations-research/en/research/2dpacklib; archives
CGCUT.zip and OF.zip). The page asks users to cite M. Iori, V.L. de Lima,
S. Martello, M. Monaci, "2DPackLib: a two-dimensional cutting and packing
library", Optimization Letters 16(2):471-480, 2022; it states no licence.
CGCUT comes from Christofides & Whitlock (1977), OF from Oliveira & Ferreira
(1990).

parse_instance.py converts each file into this example's JSON format in
parsed/ (parsed/CGCUT1.json, parsed/OF1.json, parsed/OF2.json), so the model and
checker only read JSON:

    uv run examples/guillotine_cutting/parse_instance.py CGCUT1.ins2D

All three match this example's scope: minimum demand 0 for every item, a
maximum number of copies, a profit per copy, fixed orientation. Published
optima for unlimited-stage guillotine cutting (Polyakovskiy, Dehghan, Mcgregor
& Stuckey, EJOR 331 (2026), Table 2), recorded in each parsed file:

  instance   sheet     items   total copies   published optimum
  CGCUT1     15 x 10      7         16               244   (weighted)
  OF1        70 x 40     10         23              2737   (profit = area)
  OF2        70 x 40     10         24              2690   (profit = area)

The current model does NOT reproduce these. Measured with a time limit: CGCUT1
finds 244 within 120 s but cannot prove it (bound still 260 after 30 s on 8
workers); OF1 reaches 2658 and OF2 2576 after 60 s, with bounds 4780 and 5104.
They are kept here as the target for improving the model. model.py reads them by
file name and takes an optional CP-SAT time limit in seconds as a second
argument, e.g. `model.py CGCUT1.json 60`; without one, such a run does not stop
by itself.

Model (model.py)
----------------

The model decides the cut tree itself rather than just piece coordinates. It
has a list of node slots, node 0 being the sheet. A used node is either a cut
(direction and position) that splits its rectangle into two child rectangles,
or a leaf holding exactly one piece at its bottom-left corner; whatever the
leaf has beyond the piece is waste. Every other used node is linked to one
child slot of an earlier cut, and every cut has both children. A full binary
tree with n pieces has 2n - 1 nodes, so n is bounded by the products that fit
the sheet: n <= min(total maximum quantity, sheet area // smallest piece area).
A layout that no guillotine cut sequence can produce has no such tree, so it
cannot be expressed. An empty selection (profit 0) stays feasible, which is
the optimum when no product fits.

Region coordinates keep the full domains 0..W and 0..H: waste can be thinner
than the smallest piece, so a tighter bound such as W - min width would remove
valid patterns. Speedups that lose no optimal solution: cut offsets are
restricted to sums of piece sizes within the quantity limits (normal
patterns); used nodes come first and are numbered breadth-first; and the first
child of a cut never cuts in the same direction as its parent.

Output
------

Both scripts print the standard CP-SAT stdout envelope: status, objective,
best_objective_bound, and solution. solution.pieces lists each piece as
{product, x, y, width, height} with the origin at the sheet's bottom-left
corner. solution.cuts lists each cut as {rect, direction, position}: the
rectangle it splits, "vertical" or "horizontal", and the absolute x or y of
the cut. Cuts are listed parents first, and the list includes the cuts that
trim each piece out of its leaf, so every final rectangle is exactly one piece
or waste.

results/optimal.json and results/shelf_packing.json are the committed stdout
of the two scripts, regenerated from the repository root with:

    uv run examples/guillotine_cutting/model.py > examples/guillotine_cutting/results/optimal.json
    uv run examples/guillotine_cutting/shelf_packing.py > examples/guillotine_cutting/results/shelf_packing.json

CP-SAT may choose a different layout among tied optima on another ortools
version or seed (these were produced with ortools 9.15.6755, seed 42); the
objective does not change.

Checker (checker.py)
--------------------

checker.py reads the instance from the checker payload's `problem` field,
which must be the instance JSON text (as ../job_shop/checker.py does), so it
grades whichever instance was solved. It never solves; it grades the one
answer it is given: known product ids with the product's width and height in
the fixed orientation, every piece inside the sheet, no overlaps, quantity
limits, the objective against the recomputed profit, and guillotine-ness. It
decides guillotine-ness from the piece rectangles alone: find a full-length
straight line that crosses no piece and leaves pieces on both sides, split
there, and repeat on both halves. If the solution also carries a cut tree, the
checker replays it from the sheet and requires every piece to be one leaf, but
the tree is never used as the proof. Its details report the recomputed profit,
pieces per product, sheet, used, and unused area, and whether the layout is
guillotine.
